README.md, before:

# CSS-Style-Guide
A component based CSS style guide taking cues primarily from [SMACSS](https://smacss.com/). High-level principals and formatting assumptions are used to balance consistency with flexible decision making. 

####Table of contents
1. [General principles](#general-principles)
  1. [Components](#Components)
  2. [Layout](#Layout)
2. [Do's and Don'ts](#doDont)
3. [Formatting](#Format)


<a name="general-principles"></a>
## 1. General principles
Separate **components** and **layout**: 
* Define page components as standalone pieces that are unaware of their position or size. 
* Apply a layout layer to position and size components on a page.

<a name="Components"></a>
####i. Components
Components are standalone pieces of a page that perform certain functions. For example – a call-to-action tile might highlight a thought or product and offer a "details" link for users to navigate to. ([SMACSS classifies these as "modules"](https://smacss.com/book/type-module). [BEM classifies them as “Elements”](https://en.bem.info/methodology/key-concepts/#element).) 

```html
<div class=”productCallToAction”>
	<header>
		Summer gear
	</header>
	<article>
		<p>Shop from over 850 of the best summer gear we have!</p>
	</article>
	<a class=”details” >Shop summer gear</a> 
</div>
```

Other examples of a components include:
* branded buttons
* call-to-action tiles 
* carousels 
* accordions 
* twitter widgets 
* search bars

<a name="Layout"></a>
####ii. Layout 
The layout portion of theming can be thought of as a layer that scaffolds the page’s higher parent level elements. Eg page header, page footer, main body content, sidebars etc.  ([BEM refers to these as "Blocks"](https://en.bem.info/methodology/key-concepts/#block)).This is the appropriate place to define widths and positions.  Parent level elements also house "components" so, for example, a **twitter widget component** might live inside a **side bar parent level element**. This, in a sense, means that the layout layer controls the position and sizing of everything (excluding the guts of a component; that is defined at the component level).

Having the **layout layer** separate from the **defined components** allows developers to be flexible in their choice of implementation. For example, the layout layer can be done entirely with a CSS grid framework like Bootstrap. Or, for the purist (like me), you can code up the layout as a separate section in your CSS.  As long as the components are [defined well](#doDont), they will live amongst the scaffold layout and conform to their parent elements. Follow the Do’s and Don’ts below on how to define components. 


<a name="doDont"></a>
## 2. Do's and Don'ts

Commit message:

naming conventions
naming modules and using semantic class names

README.md, after:

# CSS-Style-Guide
A component based CSS style guide taking cues primarily from [SMACSS](https://smacss.com/). High-level principals and formatting assumptions are used to balance consistency with flexible decision making. 

####Table of contents
1. [General principles](#general-principles)
  1. [Components](#Components)
  2. [Layout](#Layout)
  3. [Naming Conventions](#Naming)
2. [Do's and Don'ts](#doDont)
3. [Formatting](#Format)


<a name="general-principles"></a>
## 1. General principles
Separate **components** and **layout**: 
* Define page components as standalone pieces that are unaware of their position or size. 
* Apply a layout layer to position and size components on a page.

<a name="Components"></a>
####i. Components
Components are standalone pieces of a page that perform certain functions. For example – a call-to-action tile might highlight a thought or product and offer a "details" link for users to navigate to. ([SMACSS classifies these as "modules"](https://smacss.com/book/type-module). [BEM classifies them as “Elements”](https://en.bem.info/methodology/key-concepts/#element).) 

```html
<div class=”productCallToAction”>
	<header>
		Summer gear
	</header>
	<article>
		<p>Shop from over 850 of the best summer gear we have!</p>
	</article>
	<a class=”details” >Shop summer gear</a> 
</div>
```

Other examples of a components include:
* branded buttons
* call-to-action tiles 
* carousels 
* accordions 
* twitter widgets 
* search bars

<a name="Layout"></a>
####ii. Layout 
The layout portion of theming can be thought of as a layer that scaffolds the page’s higher parent level elements. Eg page header, page footer, main body content, sidebars etc.  ([BEM refers to these as "Blocks"](https://en.bem.info/methodology/key-concepts/#block)).This is the appropriate place to define widths and positions.  Parent level elements also house "components" so, for example, a **twitter widget component** might live inside a **side bar parent level element**. This, in a sense, means that the layout layer controls the position and sizing of everything (excluding the guts of a component; that is defined at the component level).

Having the **layout layer** separate from the **defined components** allows developers to be flexible in their choice of implementation. For example, the layout layer can be done entirely with a CSS grid framework like Bootstrap. Or, for the purist (like me), you can code up the layout as a separate section in your CSS.  As long as the components are [defined well](#doDont), they will live amongst the scaffold layout and conform to their parent elements. Follow the Do’s and Don’ts below on how to define components. 

<a name="Naming"></a>
####iii. Naming Conventions 

**Do**
Give components names that leave little to the imagination - a developer stepping in to your code should have a clear idea of what your components are based on name alone (ex: '.CTAButton', '.pagingMenu', '.filterSection'). Class names should be semantic. They should describe the content they enclose. Chris Coyier has a great article on [what makes a semantic class name](https://css-tricks.com/semantic-class-names/). 

```css
.secondaryButton { //styles } <--this is semantic
```

**Don't**
Class names **should not** describe the physical appearence of their content. (A way to remember this is to ask yourself, 'In the future, if the color/size/positioning of this element changed, would my class name still make sense?' A class name like '.masthead' would, while '.leftColumn'. 

```css
.greenButton { //styles }  <-- If your button colors ever change from green to red, this name won't make sense
```

<a name="doDont"></a>
## 2. Do's and Don'ts
